How Programmatic Advertising Uses AI to Make Smarter Campaigns

Programmatic Advertising is a term that has been around for a while now, but that is used more often among large businesses than it is by internet marketers. This is a mistake however, seeing as programmatic advertising has the power to be hugely beneficial for any marketing campaign; by leveraging the significant power of AI in order to run smarter advertising campaigns.
What is Programmatic Advertising?
Programmatic advertising is a form of advertising that uses an algorithm in order to place ads on a selection of multiple different platforms. 
Companies can spend a huge amount of time working with different publishers and different advertising platforms, to try and get their ads seen by as many people as possible. This is not only a time-consuming process, but it can also lead to wasted cash. That’s because you might find that you end up paying for an ad that nobody clicks, and that therefore doesn’t earn you any money!
Programmatic attempts to change all this by handling everything for you. You can create just one ad and then rely on the tool to ensure that ends up on all the best sites. 
More importantly though, programmatic advertising is highly optimized. This is because it will use machine learning algorithms to identify key details about your campaign and to match those with the publishers and platforms.
In other words, programmatic advertising platforms can work out the age, gender, and interests of your average customer and then use that information to place your ads in places where that kind of person will see them. This means your ads will be highly targeted, in turn meaning that the people who see them are more likely to click on them and to buy from you.
What’s more, is that a programmatic advertising tool will be able to adapt and evolve over time. If an ad is underperforming, then it might get pulled from that spot for example. 
By combining automation and machine learning, programmatic buying empowers marketers to spend less time communicating with publishers, and to optimize their campaigns.
How to Succeed With Programmatic
While programmatic advertising will handle a lot of the process for you, there are some tips that you should keep in mind if you want to make the most of this powerful tool.
For one, it is important that you design an advert that is engaging, attention grabbing, and well suited to your audience. At the same time, seeing as your ads can appear in a multitude of different locations, it’s important that you design them to be versatile. Your ads should look good whether they appear as banner ads on a personal blog, or whether they are plastered all over a huge website.
Finally, don’t be afraid to spend some money to begin with. As with any data-driven strategy, programmatic is all about collecting as much information as possible. The more mistakes you make, the more honed and efficient your campaign will become.

