Email #5
Subject:
You’ll Also Get These Fast Action Bonuses…
Bonuses are still guaranteed…
These bonuses are included with the Guide too…

[FIRST NAME],
If you haven’t grabbed my life-changing guide yet, you should do it now…
>>>LINK TO FE SALES PAGE
And it just keeps getting better…
When You Make The Wise Decision To Grab This Today, You’ll Also Get These Fast Action Bonuses…
Fast Action Bonus #1 – Artificial Intelligence In Digital Marketing - Cheat Sheet (Valued at $27)
This cheat sheet is a handy checklist that makes it easy to get started.
It breaks up the entire guide into easy-to-follow steps so that you can make sure you have all the highlights of everything covered inside right at your fingertips.
Fast Action Bonus #2 – Artificial Intelligence In Digital Marketing - Mind Map (Valued at $17)
Some people learn better by looking at a mind map. The mind map gives you an overview of everything covered inside the guide. You can also print it out for quick reference anytime you need it!
Fast Action Bonus #3 – Artificial Intelligence In Digital Marketing - Resource Guide (Valued at $17)
The Resource Guide gives you a quick point of reference to all of the resources mentioned throughout the guide.
This makes it easy to plug-in and stick with what you’re looking for.
Try This Guide On MY DIME… 
There’s No Risk!
There are a lot of people that claim to offer a solution to learn and be ready for Artificial Intelligence in Digital Marketing, so it’s understandable if you’re a little skeptical.
I can keep telling you just how great my guide is, but you really need to go through it and see for yourself what it’s all about to know if it’s for you…
That’s why I’m going to give you a FULL 30 days to decide if this is for you…
If for any reason, or no reason at all, you’re not 100% satisfied with what’s inside, simply send me an email, and I’ll refund every penny of your tiny investment…
No questions asked!
Click The Button Below Now To Get INSTANT ACCESS…
 [YOUR NAME]
PS – Don’t wait… the price really is going up very soon… You’ll extremely surprised at just how affordable this is…
Click the link below now to get started…
>>>LINK TO FE SALES PAGE

